Mother bag is the packaging used to keep the meat longer in the backroom from delivery. Most packages of meat come in a 4-pack mother bag, with exceptions like pork which may have several bags per container. The bags are sealed with gas. When the mother bag is cut open all contents need to be dated and sent to the shelf. The mother bag itself has a best by date as well.

The alternative to the mother bag system is just having an actual butcher to prepare each package by hand. If there is another delivery system for pre-packaged meats I am just not familiar with it.

Say you are picking in the meat department. Fresh is designed to have partial case picks by default. A pick for meat would ask you to pick 1 mother bag, for example, instead of just individual packages inside. All or nothing.

https://old.reddit.com/r/walmart/comments/1bs1bmv/walmart_allegedly_caught_inflating_weights_of/kxet1ad/ 

It is when you realize those mother bags are considered stable for several months prior to opening.

Meat cut off site, shipped in, and then stored for weeks in the back until the gas is released is gross imo.

I understand why stores do it. It saves the need for on site butchers, but you can't tell me it doesn't alter the meat somehow. And like any other food additive, I'm sure there's a safe quantity of exposure. But that doesn't mean you can't over consume it unknowingly.

I prefer the on site butchers for custom cuts and unseasoned ground pork for homemade sausage. When given the choice, I'll always buy from a store with an actual on-site meat cutting. I think it tastes better and I don't have to worry about some unknown side effect of the mother bag system. I can check if meat is spoiling myself. I can't check if consuming mother bag meat is affecting my hormones, immune system, or gut flora.

Call me paranoid, but the amount of extra chemicals in our food is having side effects. Some we've discovered and some we haven't yet. When possible I'm trying to eat better and cleaner. Or at the least reduce things I know to be bad in larger quantities.

Am I perfect? No. Am I going vegan? No. But I am going to make an effort to control what I can in my food? Yes.

Don't get me wrong, on site butchers require competent employees with high standards for food quality/safety. If a business is cutting corners or the meat room is being mismanaged they can do some sketchy shit that can make people sick like regrinding meat so it doesn't look as old as it is, then repacking it for a later date.

If you ever want to learn about the meat industry go to a local butcher's shop. And just start talking and asking questions. People rarely don't enjoy talking about themselves. Just go when they're less busy and you'll probably get some impromptu meat cutter demos and a good lecture on what's what.

As someone who knows a trained butcher, I can tell you the secret to winning their heart is complementing their knives. You show respect for their equipment and they'll probably talk your ear off.

Meat Department 93

Weekly Rate of Sell

How much of an item you sell in one week on average. You can find this information in the Sales Floor Tool.

Daily Rate of Sell

How much of an item you sell in one day on average. You can find this information in the Sales Floor Tool.

Mother Bag

A Mother Bag is an inner pack on all Pork, Beef, and Ground Beef. Chicken does not come in mother bags. You can find the Mother Bag size under size when you scan and item in the Sales Floor Tool. Once a Mother Bag is open all product in that mother bag must be dated

Inner Pack

Inner Pack see Mother Bag.

Eaches

Each unit is sold at the same price.

Pounds

Each unit is sold by the pound.

Vacuum Pack

Items that come in vacuum sealed in plastic not in a tray.(Pork ribs, Pork Roasts, Fresh Turkey, All smoked meats. These items come in predated and DO NOT need a Use By Date sticker

Beef Select Tray

The cheaper beef Normally in a White Tray.

Beef Angus Tray

The expensive beef normally in a Black Tray

Ground Beef Tray

Hamburger or Ground Beef that comes in a tray

Rolled Ground Beef / Beef Chubs

Hamburger or Ground Beef that comes in a roll

Pork

Normally in a Pink Tray

Chicken

Normally in a Yellow Tray

Dinner Sausage

All Dinner Sausage come in Frozen and MUST be dated with a use by date printed from the Sales Floor Tool

Breakfast Sausage

All Breakfast Sausage come in Frozen. The Breakfast Sausage in a yellow tray or rolled DOES NOT need to be dated. The Breakfast Sausage in a white or black tray DOES need to be dated.

Pack Out

To put out as much product as possible. WE DO NOT PACK OUT ANY PRODUCT THAT NEEDS TO BE DATED. The only product we pack out is chicken, vacuum packed items and rolled ground beef. This product gets packed out because it comes in predated. Weather or not it is on the sales floor or in the backroom it is going to expire by its use by date.

Minimum Presentation

To put out your daily sale rate. This DOES NOT apply to chicken, vacuum packed items and ground beef chubs because it is already dated.

Predated

Chicken, vacuum packed items and ground beef chubs all come in from the warehouse with a use by date.

Scale By Date

Scale By Date is the date in which all items in that box or RPC must be dated. All Beef and Pork have a Scale By Date. A Scale By Date is NOT a Use By Date

Use By Date

Use By Date is what we put on all beef, pork and sausage and is the date that the item must be used or frozen

CVP

CVP is when we mark something down and try to sell it at a lower price

Markdown to zero

Markdown to zero is when we scan something in the claims app and zero it out to throw it away or donate it

Throwaway

Something that has to be thrown away and cannot be donated

Donation

Something that is donated to the local food bank

Feed America

We give our donations to a Feed America food bank. Sometimes abbreviated F.A.

Cut out

When your done doing your markdowns you must then cut all that meat out of its package and put it in the bone barrels

Bone Barrels

Bone Barrel is where we put our bad meat

High Rack

High Rack is the rack you put the meat on

White Tray

White Tray goes into a high rack

Smoked Meat

Meat that has been smoked such as hams

Bunker

Open cooler or freezers in the middle of the aisle

Fresh vs Frozen

An Item that comes in Refrigerated is fresh. An item that comes in Frozen is frozen

PLU Code

PLU stands for Product LookUp Code

UPC

UPC stands for Universal Product Code

Wypall

It’s a paper towel in a box. Use it to clean up blood or wipe down product that is bloody or wet.

Break Down

It’s what you do to the pallets of meat.

Fill or Kill.

If you have an empty feature you can either fill it or change it out.

WIBI

Would I Buy It. Can I sell it. When in doubt throw it out. If you can CVP then CVP

Brown Meat

If its brown mark it down. Apply the WIBI rule. See WIBI

Ordering Fresh

Only order when necessary. After you fill your wall and if you have outs that are not in the back room. Scan your outs, zero them and order 1 case and only 1 case of each out. Keep it simple and let the system do its job. The more you order the more work you have.

https://old.reddit.com/r/walmart/comments/9exmrn/meat_department_93_tips_and_tricks/